He became active that early then? Yeah. Oh, yeah.
Yeah, he was active. He never was president of the
association during my tenure, but he became
president of the association shortly after Buck
came in. Was he positive regarding these changes?
I don't think he was real positive to start with.
That would have been my guess. Yes. I think he was
more on Earl's side. than anybody, but I think he,
it came around, okay, was Royce. You were asking
the big posers of that, the Beaumont A&M Club
through Charlie Babcock's influence, and the
Houston A&M Club to some extent through the
influence of Mr. Travis Smith, and the A&M Mothers
Club as a group,
They didn't want any of the old traditions
changed. But beyond that, the Aggies I think
generally were positively responsive to the
changes. You mentioned those two that have a
little bit of a regional Beaumont and Houston, but
by and large it wasn't engineers for and ag
against. It didn't break down that way, did it? No,
it didn't break down. No, it didn't break down by
agriculture or engineers or anything like that.
No, it was just
the breaking of a tradition. There was no nothing
like that. Let's see. We mentioned Hubert and...
I'm trying to think of some of those people. Back in
the early times when Earl first came back here,
Well,
I remember John Calhoun and Bob Kamm. Kamm took the
place of Dean Pitberg. And John Calhoun, I'm not
sure what his first position was. Was it Dean of
Engineering? I think so. Okay, Dean of
Engineering. Frank Hubert came back as Dean of
Arts and Sciences. Dr. Bowden probably was here as
dean of veterinary medicine. And agriculture.
Patterson, I think. Dr. R.E. Patterson, and then,
who was it? Begins with an A. Still. Begins with an
A. Yeah.
Why can't my brain recall? Agriculture? Wasn't
Kunkel? No. Before Coco. Before Coco. I thought I
had it written on some card in here. It was an A.
Mount Shepardson. No, no.
Gus Watkins. Wrong. Gus Watkins. Gus Watkins,
yeah. Gus Watkins. I was wrong on that. Yeah, Gus
Watkins. I remember Gus. And I, now, as far as
you... Now, let me think a minute. I had my mind on
two other people. One of the things that pleased
Earl most back in that era was to be able to persuade
these two chemists to come here from Pittsburgh or
somewhere up there.
Well,
Zwolinski. and his partner. I can't think of the
name of his partner because he died a long time ago.
He died in 64 or 65. But they came down here from some
chemical institute, Carnegie Tech or somewhere.
And they were outstanding chemists and that was
the beginning of trying to recruit some of the top
people. course later on they got Zener and they got
this doctor that was in physics. Well I remember
Mr. Rudder saying sometimes when outstanding
people were hired away from here, we're proud to
have had them. And a few of us cynics at first
thought that he was meaning well you know we're
glad somebody else paid him more money. Then we
realized no he was he was really saying we're glad
that it that we're one of the places where the top
schools- We've had them as long as we did. Yeah. Who
are some other former students that you think
deserve credit for helping A&M move forward from
your experience? Well, I think, of course I've
mentioned the top ones that I've been talking
about. Dr. Harold Dunn, Jimmy Askins, Maggie
McGee, John Mangus. And then the Weisenbakers.
Royce Weisenbaker is the one that started the
endowed presidential scholarship program. He
put up the first one in Earl's name. Put up one in
Buck's name. The Pete Petersons, only I disagreed
with Pete. Pete disagreed with me on several
things. Still, Pete was the president of the
association. He later was a member of the board of
directors of the institution, later a member of
the board of coordinating boards.
Pete Peterson and John Younger from West Texas.
Let me tell you about a meeting we had with John
Younger. John Younger, you can see
the problem. As you probably know, A&M student
body was called Mickey Mouse in those days. Aggies
would go home and strut those boots up and down the
halls with a shaved head and the students would lie
down. And John Young
called me and said, you'll get Earl and you'll come
to Midland. I want to have a luncheon. It's not
going to be the A&M Club, it's going to be me eating
on the school board in Midland. He said, I want to
have a luncheon. And I want to have the school
superintendent and the high school principal
present. And we're going to have a frank
discussion.
I remember with Maggie. Maggie and and I sat there
and had a luncheon. And Earl. And Earl was more or
less new at the job at the time. So it would have been
in 58 or maybe 58. Before all this century
business,
aspirations and all that, we went to this country
club in Midland. This superintendent and this
president got to talk about A&M. These two men just
told Earl just like he was. He said, Earl, I don't
know, you don't realize it, I'm sure, but when
these kids from A&M come to Midland, all these
other kids laugh at them. And when you talk to these
students in middle and high school about going to
A&M, they just laugh. They're not about to go to
A&M. They want to go to Texas Tech. They want to go to
the University of Texas. Or they want to go to these
teachers' colleges out there. They don't want to
go to A&M. And Earl was in state shock. He said, why?
He said, well, it's all Mickey Mouse stuff. He
said,
these kids don't
like the military. They don't like the
regimentation. They don't like to go to a place
where they don't grow. Particularly, a place like
Pratt & Kelly Station, or El Paso, where they can
have some social stuff. where they don't have to
wear a uniform. They don't want to wear a uniform.
Earl just tore Earl's heart out to say not to wear a
uniform. But they were so honest. And I really left
there feeling sorry for Earl because they were so
right. They were so honest and so right. And I think
that was the first time that Earl had been talked to
like that by somebody that was totally neutral.
And really, trying to do what was best for him. And
John Younger, you see, he knew as well as those
administrators what was happening. And so I had to
put John Younger in the
way of what was best. Of course, I told you a little
bit about John and Jen, which is somewhat the same
for Fort Auburn. They wouldn't keep right along.
President of the Association and then went on to be
a member of the Board of Directors and was active
and
strong.
I really, I don't know whether I'm getting older or
whether I've been away from it longer, but I don't
see the kind of legals in the associations program
that I remember he had. All right, as a person who's
been away from A&M for 17 years, now back two, I
agree with you in the events that I've attended
here and elsewhere, I don't see people that I would
call major league status in the association
leadership like there used to be. That's the
point. When I left, though, But I lived over there
and I was partially responsible for Buck getting
that job. And I sat down with Buck and I said, Buck,
let me tell you what I think is the most important
function that you have. And that function is the
kind of people that you seek out to be your leaders.
And I said, don't settle for the lower echelon. If
you're going to get somebody from Houston, you got
a bunch of people that work at a corporation. And if
the president of that corporation is an A&M
graduate, you get the president. There you go.
Don't you go down below and go to the third level or
the fourth level. You get the top man. And I said,
number two. don't get a single soul in here that has
any private agenda. And what we used to say, you get
the guy that's pure in heart. That means his
heart's pure, he wants to serve, and he wants to
serve because he wants to help the university.
He's paying back. He's paying back. And I think if
Buck ever thought And I think maybe he faulted in
that school. And Buck tended to want to get the good
old back-slapping sophomore yell leader who'd
been to A&M rather than the president of Gulf Hall
of Fame. Now, me personally, if that yell leader
still a sophomore was president of Texas Power and
Life. That's different. That's different. I take
it. But if he wasn't. he was named to that board
because he was a good old boy, then I think he made a
mistake. And I just don't believe that they're
getting into the action. And I know they're all
younger, but we've got younger guys that are up
there. They just are not getting them. And I don't
know whether you can say that's Randy's fault or
whether it's a sign of the times. or whether
there's not that interest out there, but I can't
believe that's not so. I believe there's interest
there, if you'll just harness it. I went up one time
to Les Potter's office. Les Potter was president
of Lone Star Gas Company in Dallas. He never been on
my association board.
They are getting the kind of leadership that we did
back there in the days when the A&M was not quite so
large. I also, in my observer's point of view, feel
that the Board of Regents, in some instances... I
feel the same way. Now, I think that there's been an
effort to minimize the part that the alumni play on
the Board of Regents. I fear you're correct.
That's just like I felt when the accrediting group
from the College of Veterinary Medicine came in
here and told us we had too many A&M graduates from
the College of Veterinary Medicine. We brought a
bunch of people down here from the north that
didn't want to work. And as a result, we went
downhill. Now,
What are
we talking about here? Well, we're talking about
the people that deserve great credit. Let's pick
up a fellow named Wayne Stark and bring him in and
the role he played. I can do that. Please. Nobody
else can do it better than I can. Wayne Stark, for
service that I was, Wayne Stark applied to be
executive secretary of the association when I
applied. Wayne was three years ahead of me, class
of 39. Wayne had been and was working for Anderson
Clayton Cotton Company out of Houston.
They gave me the job. But about the same time this
position of Director of the MSC came up. Was it
called that at the time he was appointed? Yes.
Okay. And he was named Director of the Memorial
Student Center shortly after I was named before
either one of us reported. We both reported to A&M
on the same day. Oh my. I reported in to McQuillan on
October the 1st, 1947. Wayne reported in to Angel,
I guess, or whoever had hired him. I think it was
Angel at the time. On the same day. They gave Wayne a
house on the campus close to where the MSC was
located. They wouldn't give me a house anywhere
because they were trying to move all those houses
off the campus.
I was at the groundbreaking. Wayne and I were very
close. He was doing a lot of the preliminary work
for the MSC before they built it. They broke
ground, I believe it was on September the 20th of
1948. They broke ground for the MSC. And it took him
about two years to build. So he had nothing to do
with the physical design of the building? No. That
was already done? That worked. Well, he got into
the picture later on. Yes, he did. Mr. Carlton
Adams and Brooks Martin and the fellow that was in
the Aggieland Orchestra, Wally Scott, up in the
system architect's office, designed the MSC. And
Robert McKee, the company out of El Paso, did the
work. They built the building. Robert E. McKee.
Robert E. McKee. And they had a big opening of the
building.
I think it was in July of 19, June or July of 1948.
They broke it in 1950. And Ms. Park from San
Antonio, I remember, was one of the ladies that
spoke. She represented, she had a son, I think, who
was killed in World War II. And so she spoke because
it was a memorial building. But anyway, Wayne's
offices were down at that lower level, far end of
the building, and I was next door. So we were side by
side, and I was on his first student council. of
Memorial Student Center Council. I was on its
first council and stayed on that council as long as
I was working for the association. And Wayne and I
had a lot of sessions together, cried on each
other's shoulders,
a lot. Wayne was a kind of a fella who wouldn't look
at the big picture. In other words, to put it more
simply, if elephants were running down the first
floor, he'd be down in the basement killing piss
ants. Now that was Wayne's way of doing things.
Pure and hard as he would be, he wanted to do the best
he could. But Wayne was so busy, and I don't want to
fault him for this, because it was important for
him at the time, particularly important. trying
to further the artwork, and the cultural things,
and the dramatic things, rather than fundamental
basics of keeping buildings clean. And as a
result,
Wayne, in some fashion, has got on Earl's shit
face. And I remember one day, Earl came up. Wayne
came into my office. He had about a five-page
letter. He said, I want your single space. And he
said, I want you to read this letter before I made it
to Pearl.
And I said, all right. And I read it. I closed my
office door, and I read that letter. And most of it
he was complaining to Earl about the fact that some
of his janitors were not performing quite
properly. And I read that letter and I said, my God,
I've got to stop this. So the next morning I got a
bill of Wayne to come over and I said, Wayne, first
thing let me tell you, don't mail this letter. I
said, keep it one day and then burn it up. But don't
you so show it to anybody else. I said, let me tell
you something. If there's anything in the world at
this moment that Earl doesn't want to see, it's a
letter from you complaining about some of the
things that you already take care of first. Don't,
for God's sake, send this letter to Earl. And I
said, promise me you won't later. And he promised
he wouldn't. And two or three days later, I said,
why didn't you burn that letter? I think he said,
no. And I said, get it out of your, get it out, you got
it out of your system by writing that letter. Now
get it out of your file so it don't exist. Then about
a year
later, I had a call from Earl. He said, did you go
there? The man in the meeting was Wayne Stark in
Beaumont. I said, yes, sir. He said, did Wayne
badmouth
your name at that meeting? I said, Earl, let me come
over and talk to you. And I went over and I said,
Wayne didn't mean to badmouth you. He was just
complaining about some of the things that he felt
was going on. But I said, I don't think he intended
to make you look bad if he did. And he said, well, he
did. He said, I've had four or five phone calls from
people who haven't seen me. And I said, well, Wayne
gets carried away on things that he don't have the
fitness to get carried away on. And Earl told me, he
said, you tell him to attend to his business and run
a clean operation.
Forget about all that stuff. I said, okay. Did
anybody encourage Wayne, or was it his own
self-generation, to be the kind of identifier of
student leadership potential? Because he did it
that well to bring these bright kids in. That was
Wayne Stevens. Okay. It wasn't anybody else but
Wayne. Wayne, in some way, had the knack, unlike
Buck, to pick out these kids that were leaders and
did a good job of it. Have you heard any of the
students refer to the green couch treatment? In
his office? Right. I can imagine. Where he
lectured to them. Put them on that old green couch
and lectured. You can do better. You've got a lot of
talent. Oh, yeah. Now go use it. Well, I believe
every bit of it. And he would pick out these kids
like John Samuels and Fuller and all the rest of
them. Cloud, and all of them. And he was performing
like a dean of students. Who hired Hannigan? Earl
Rudder brought Hannigan. Earl. Where did he find
him, do you know? He found him just retired as a
general. Yes. And let's see, he brought him in
here, I guess as Commandant first, didn't he or
didn't he? I don't know if it was Commandant or
Dean, but it was He was here when I got here. He was
here when you got here. When did you come? 59. 59. He
hired Jim Hannigan. He had known Jim Hannigan
during the war. Oh, okay. He was familiar with both
Doris and Jim. And he brought him here about the
same time he brought John Calhoun and Frank Huber.
I remember snickering one day in a meeting there'd
been too many non-reg students walking across the
drill field. And somebody had come up with the idea
to put bailing wire around the trees. And at this
meeting, Hannigan couldn't figure out where
anybody could have found the pliers needed to cut
the wire. Cut the wire. And I said, well, you might
look at every pickup on the campus. Every pickup on
the campus. And he was surprised at that. One thing
about Wayne before I forget. When Wayne and Earl,
or at least Wayne was not in Earl's best of the
number one good old boys. Wayne went to the
National Union Building meeting and somebody
offered him a job up in Ohio.
And Wayne came to me. He said, I've been offered
this job. I'm afraid Earl's going to fire me. And he
said, I don't want to turn down the job if Earl's
going to fire me. But if he's not going to fire me, I
don't want to leave. And I said, OK, Earl. I mean,
Wayne, what are you going to do? He said, I want you
to go over and talk to Earl and come back and
tell me what he said. I said, I'll do that. And I
guess Jerry Haught, somebody up there in the
president's office, I said, I need to see Earl, but
it won't take you for about five minutes and you can
work me in. She came back and said, he'll see you
now. I said, I'm on the way. Well, I went inside and I
said, Earl, my mission is for Wayne Star. He said,
what's Wayne up to now? I said, well... Wayne has
gone to this national meeting of union directors,
and somebody's offered him a job as a union
director in a college that's somewhere up in Ohio.
And he thinks you're getting ready to fire him. And
he, if you're gonna terminate him, he wants to take
this job. But if you're not gonna terminate him, he
wants to stay here, but he'd like to know kind of
what his position is. And Earl just laughed and
said, well, he said, you go over there and tell
Blaine that I'm not gonna find him. But tell Earl
from me that I don't want him putting any more naked
women's pictures
in me. So Katie Dale, he'll come over and raise hell
with me about your naked women. And tell him to keep
the damn place. clean and tell him to approve the
food. And he just laughed about it. He said, I'm not
going to follow that. Who were the Mr. Rudders, if
he turned to somebody for advice, he turned to you,
who else did he? He turned to McQuillan. Okay.
McQuillan kept Earl in A&M when he was a student.
McQuillan went to Mr. Irving Aston in Bryan. Earl
needed to borrow money. And old McQuillan was such
a scotchman, he could have loaned him all the money
himself. But he wanted Earl to have the benefit of a
banking relationship. So he called old man Irving
and asked him, he said, I'm going to send a young man
over to see you. His name is Earl Runner. And he
said, he needs some money, probably $200. I don't
know what it was. But anyway, he said, I highly
recommend this boy. And I think he'll pay you back
if you'll run with him. The man asked, Mac told me,
the old man asked and said, if you'd recommend him,
I'll lend him the money you sent him. So with that
kind of situation, Earl just thought the world of
Mac. Now Mac was highly instrumental in this
co-education thing. Very strong. And anyway,
Earl talked to McQuillan. He didn't trust
Harrington. He didn't trust Shuffler. He didn't
trust Vi Freeman. He didn't trust Angel. And a lot
of the stuff that he wanted to find out about, he had
asked me to go down there and find out. I said, I'll
go find out. And when Angel left to go to Arkansas,
that's when Earl won out over this conflict. I had
talked to Tom Harrington about taking the job as
assistant chancellor that Angel had had. And I
more or less informed him about the job. I never
heard from Tom again, but Earl found out that I had
talked to Tom. Earl called me and he said, I want you
in that job. He said, I want you to take it. I said,
well, I will take it, Earl, if I'm offered the job.
Board of Regents men. And they were talking to Tom
Harrington about who had applied for the job and
who he was considering. And he mentioned my name.
And Earl was apparently present at this meeting.
And Earl called me two or three times that weekend.
That was a Saturday. He said, they're talking
about you for that job. I want you to take it. And I
said, Earl? I'm ready to take you, but I have to be
offered a job. I have to be offered. I had a call from
a fellow named Howdy Rideout. He was a member of the
automobile dealership there. And Howdy said, I
understand you were talking about this job with
Angel. I said, I sure am, Howdy. I applied for the
job, and a hotel person sent me for the job. He said,
well, the Board of Regents have talked about you.
They want you in the job. I said, well, all I need is
to be offered the job. Well, time came and went, I
never got offered the job. Earl called me one day
and said, why the hell didn't you take that job? I
said, Earl, the reason I didn't take it, I wasn't
offered the job. And then named Bob Cherry. And a
lot is different because of it. Yeah, yeah. So
anyway.
I just guess that Tom didn't want me up there. I
think, as a matter of fact, that Tom was a little bit
afraid of the former students.
And by the fact that I knew a lot of people among the
former students, some of the most powerful ones,
that he just was afraid of being a child. Or maybe he
thought, I don't know. He never discussed it with
me.